The Syntactic Web:
------------------------------------------------
Most of the Web Today is syntactic. That is, information presentation is carried out
by Computers. But the interpretation and identification of relevant information is 
delegated to human beings. The interpretation part is demanding!!

The question is : Why can't computers do the "interpretation" job too?
Some of the problems with the Syntactic Web are:

0. HTML does not attach any semantics to its tags. It is "format" centric.
   ( An anchor tag <a> only tells the reader that the content is a hyperlink.
     But nothing else is told about the anchor)
1. A lot of web pages do not contain information about themselves (meta data).
2. Low "recall precisions". Pages with matching words may be returned by a good
   search engine, but the words may just be mentioned "in passing" by the web pages
   and hence the match is really not "strong".   
3. Search results are sensitive to vocabularies used. 
   For instance the search for "TCP/IP" and "Protocol" (together), may end up skipping
   all those pages which describe TCP/IP as a "Standard". 
4. Search results appear as a list of references to individual pages. However many of
   these may belong to the same "Web Site". Getting the complete set of relevant entries
   may be cumbersome.
   
   
   
The Semantic Web:
------------------------------------------------
The Semantic Web aims to solve the above problems. That is, Computers will try and
"interpret" information to some extent before presenting it to the end user.

For instance, in the Syntactic Web, a search for "Springbok" may return all pages
about the Antelope and also about the South Africans (who are called Springboks).
In the Semantic Web, the search engine may be able to interpret some of these results
and categorise them into two groups and present relevant material to the end user.

According to the W3C, 
"The Semantic Web provides a common framework that allows data to be shared and reused across application, enterprise, and community boundaries". 

The aim is to restructure data available on the Web so that we can accomplish the above
tasks effectively.


The Main Components (themes) of the Semantic Web are:
1. Concepts - Meta data, Ontologies, Web Services
2. Applications - Semantic Desktop Apps
3. Technologies - Tools for Ontology development


