Probs:
-----------  
 The Start and stop method of fetching data is very irritating.
   User has to perform an action before a fetch happens. This is because, 
   the fetch is a response to user action. Also, a small wait is required 
   before each fetch is displayed.
   
   Ultimate goal is to make responses near real-time (0 delay).
   
Solution:

Automatically fetch data, without user having to explicitly request for it.
Mere navigating through a page should be enough for triggering requests.

Popular patterns:
------------------
a. Predictive Fetch
b. On-demand Javascript (even stylesheets)
c. Periodic Refresh
d. Fallback patterns.
e. Multi-stage download
f. Submission Throttling

Predictive Fetch
--------------------------
Key triggers for a pre-fetch:

1. User action.
2. User history
3. Other users' action.

Sometimes client can trigger a server action without the server actually responding.

(The client triggers the server. The Server can connect to database, 
 fetch data and then cache the data.
 It then waits for another request from client to actually send back data. 
 Processing time can be drastically reduced by this approach. The other advantage
 is that if the browser does not need this data, then the server is not requested
 and this can avoid unnecessary wastage of bandwidth)

Real world examples: Google Maps, Most Newspaper sites 

Important factors to consider:
------------------------------------
1. How much data to pre-fetch?
2. Which data to pre-fetch? (what happens if the prediction is wrong?)
3. Side-effects - Inconsistent behaviors. For instance, the user may find 
   that some links are really fast (because they were pre-fetched) whereas
   other links are really slow.
4. Decision is governed by: Utility to the user, likelihood of action, overhead
   if the fetch is wasted. 	 	

   
Submission Throttling:
-----------------------------
1. Early vs late send. 
2. Practical examples: Google suggest and any form submission.
3. Throttle period - based on events or time? If time, what is a good 
   throttle period? The "Early send" could use event as the trigger whereas the
   "late send" could use time as the trigger.

 
Periodic Refresh
-----------------------------
1. Choosing a good period is crucial. 
   If the period is very small (say 2s), then we make a call to the server every 2 seconds.
   This may queue up a lot of requests if the latency is high. On the other hand if
   the period is big (say 30 seconds), then we may lose intermediate updates. For
   example - a stock price updation app.
   
2. Each fetch must return "small" data. (because there will be numerous requests)

3. Fallback pattern for this....? (Exponential backoff)
   Backoff in powers of 2. For instance, if the period chosen is 10 seconds
   and a refresh fails, we can try again after 20s. If that too fails, try after
   40 seconds and so on...
   
4. Automatic cancel of "refresh" if it is detected that the user is not 
   doing anything with the page. This is a very good idea as well. Then when the user
   starts interacting with the page, the refresh can resume.
   
   Question: How to find out if the user is interacting with the page???
   

Multi-stage download
----------------------------------
1. In force when lots of data needs to be downloaded. Usually the "FIRST" load.
2. Order of the download. This is crucial. Otherwise your site may die soon.
   The most relevant and light data must arrive first so that the user can get started.
   The heaviest ones should probably arrive later. The advantage of this is that,
   if the user navigates away from the page fairly quickly, then the heavy downloads
   are avoided.
   
3. Have indicators to indicate to the user that more data is coming.
   (Progress bars or animated GIFs).
   Is it a good idea to let the user know WHAT DATA is being downloaded??
   
4. Have place holders which can accept returned data readily.
   <div> elements or tables etc
   
5. When will the Ads come??