INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE 1st LAB EXERCISE- HIDDEN IFRAMES AJAX
----------------------------------------------------------
This exercise involves making AJAX calls using hidden Iframes.
The exercise demonstrates how you can make GET requests
using the Iframes technique. The exercise also showcases the main
advantage of the hidden frames technique where "history" is 
maintained.

1. Create an HTML form as shown in "hidden_frames_1.jpg".
   The page has a form with 6 text fields as shown.
   Only the "USN", "ELECTIVES" and the "HOBBIES" fields are editable.
   The "NAME", "DEPT" and "GPA" fields are NOT editable. They are READ-ONLY.
   
2. The student can enter a valid USN in the USN field. As soon as the student
   exits the "USN" field, an AJAX call is made to a server script using 
   a hidden Iframe. The server returns the NAME, DEPT and GPA values
   corresponding to the USN entered. If the USN entered is invalid, the 
   server returns "INVALID USN". This string is then appended (next to the
   USN field) on the screen. If proper values are returned for NAME, DEPT and 
   GPA, the values are populated into the respective text fields. (Remember
   these are read-only and hence only the server can populate these).
   
   The server must read this data from a text file, by matching the USN.
   
   This call will be a GET call. To get hold of an Iframe with id="ifr",
   use the call 'iframe = document.getElementById("ifr");'. Now to make a call
   from the Iframe to the server, change the "src" attribute of the iframe
   object and point it to the server script. This will force a GET request.
   
   The server script must return a <script> which can run in the Iframe, 
   which then populates the fields in the main window. 
   
   (Normally the server would just return text. But now we need to return a script
   because only then can the iframe write back to the main frame.) 
   As far as the iframe is concerned, it will make a "Synchronous" call to the server.
   The server returns html which contains a <script> element in its <head> part. 
   There will be only ONE line in this script code. That is:
   
   parent.setFields(datastr); // where datastr is the string returned by the server.
   
   Now, have a function in the MAIN window called "setFields(str)". Here split the 
   "str" to extract all fields and populate the text fields.
   
   Thus, when the server responds to the Iframe with the html page, the script in it
   fires automatically when it is rendered in the browser. This script will access
   the setFields() function in the main window and update the fields.
   
   When everything works, hide the iframe by using "display:none" as CSS setting.
  
3. The student can now edit the remaining two fields (Electives and hobbies)

4. The student can now click the "SAVE TO SERVER" button. This will be a submit button.
   You can take some dummy action on this. (Trigger a PHP on the server which just 
   returns a new page with "details saved" as the text. This will be a normal
   synchronous call.)   
   
5. Finally demonstrate how "HISTORY" is maintained in this technique.
   Clue: For this, each time the server has to return data (onblur of USN field),
   send a script from the server, so that you update ALL 6 fields, even though 
   the server sent back only 3. This will make sure that when the "BACK" button 
   is clicked,the URL of the hidden iframe keeps changing to the previous value and 
   all 6 fields will get updated automatically. 
   
   Tips:
   
   a. Use <iframe src="..."  id="...." ></iframe> to create the IFrame.
      Remember that the Iframe is part of the body.
   b. Use fopen("file","a") to open a file in append mode in the PHP script.
   c. Send data from the PHP by using ";" as separator so that you can easily 
      extract them on the client side.
 